I bow to all the seekers of Truth.
When we are seeking the Truth we have to know
we have to be honest about it.
Because it is benevolent for us, not for others.
We are seeking the Truth for ourselves, not
for others.
The another thing we have to remember, very
humbly, that truth is what it is.
We can not change it, we can not organize
it, we can not maneuver it.
It is what has been and will be.
And what is the Truth?
The truth is that you are the Spirit.
You are not this body, you are not this mind, you
are not this ego, and you are not this conditioning.
You are the Spirit.
But so far you have been a human being.
But to be humane being itself is a very great thing.
Is the greatest thing – to be a humane being.
Perhaps we have not realized the value of
our life because we do not know what we are.
The way we waste our time, waste our energies,
waste our attention on things, which are senseless,
because we still have to understand the greatness
of our being.
Human beings are made with such care, so
beautifully, such delicate working of the Divine
from amoeba to this stage passing through
various stages,
such a beautiful thing has
been created as a human being.
But first we must have this attention to
our Self that there must be something.
It can not be a purposelessly [WAY or DOING],
it can not be something just a chance.
Is a wrong idea to play with.
If the gravitation force of the Earth or anyone
of the galaxies changes, then be disaster,
absolute disaster.
So many things in the cosmos, if you study, the
coefficients that works out, the different balancing
and the different weights and the movements of the
different bodies
show us that there must be some purpose.
And they do not trouble us; it’s all as
if made for the stage for human beings.
That the human beings have to come on the stage and
all the preparation is made for the great drama.
I think it’s high time that
great scientists should look at it
and start wondering why is it the way it is made.
Why we are so much looked after.
The whole cosmos seems to be within ourselves
as if we have buttons, which move the cosmos,
which control the cosmos.
Everything is going on so smoothly otherwise,
except when we do not try to understand ourselves.
It has been said practically in all the
Scriptures that you have to seek your Self;
you have to find your Self.
Though I think many of this
Scriptures have been little bit changed
and have been used for certain purposes,
still they could not get over this point that you
have to become the Self,
you have to be born again.
But that is not an artificial thing.
We are humane beings not artificially made.
We are made really by some sort of a living
force from amoeba.
We are not just made with some sort of a thinking
or a mental projection.
It is not a mental projection by which we
have been human beings, it is something spontaneously
happening, a living force within
us, which has brought us to this stage
- with a purpose, with a meaning.
And now at this stage we are free to do what
we like.
Many people ask Me, “What was the need to
give this freedom to humane beings?”
It was very necessary.
If you have to have the ultimate freedom you
must know how to deal with it.
You have to understand.
Of course, humane beings have to make mistakes.
To err is human.
And we have to understand that this trial
– error and trial and error business –
has made us understand, also those
who have not understood must understand,
that there must be a wiser or surer way
to achieve that goal of
Self-Realization, of Self-knowledge.
Self-knowledge we do not have, we must admit
very humbly,
we have had no system by
which we could know ourselves.
But think of a computer that is a human being is.
As soon as you see Me you know I am there.
You don’t have to go for programming,
you don’t have to consult anything,
you don’t have to use any kind of computer
or some sort of a complicated machinery,
automatically, spontaneously
in a split of a second
you know that I’m standing before you and talking
to you.
Such a computer we can not create.
But the Divine has created such a great computer
and that is the human being.
And this human being is the only one
who is going to achieve that higher state,
which we call as the spiritual state of the Self.
Because in the science they deal
with the tree, I should say, the outside,
but they can not go into the roots.
To go into the roots you have to become a
subtler being.
Unless and until you become a subtler being
you can not go into your roots to find out
what are your roots are.
And that is what is Self-Realization.
When you become subtler then only you can
go into your being
and can find out what actually
you are.
Also to look after a tree, which has not know
its roots, is a very difficult thing.
What happens is that when
you do not know your roots
and you start growing, and growing,
and growing you go very deep down
into that where you find
that you have lost your way.
Actually you are not going deeper.
You are spreading outside more and more.
And then once you start going to extremes
because of your freedom you lose your way.
That’s how today everybody is saying, “A
shock is going to come”.
You are all going to face a shock.
This is going to happen, that is going to
happen.
But actually it is absolutely in your hands
because the whole of the cosmos is within you.
The cosmos is working under your control complete.
It is absolutely looking after you.
Every element is looking after you to preserve you,
to guide you, to take you to the right thinking.
But in your freedom you have to achieve that.